we were all set to leave labor we felt
that everything was on track for toki
ensemble we always knew of course that
they'd be facing natural risks for the
rest of their lives but nothing could
prepare us for what happened this
morning there's been a terrible turn of
events at some point in the night the
cheetahs met with lions it's not the
first time they've met with lions we
know that for sure
they know they're dangerous and up until
now they've always managed to escape
unfortunately for sambu it was the last
time
which makes life very difficult for taki
it makes life pretty tough for us does
that mean it was all a failure I don't
know right now I feel somehow personally
responsible which may be crazy
they killed last night the Cheetahs near
dusk they fed well they both had full
stomachs and they were sleeping in the
rocks it looks as though a lion must
have smelt them stoked them taki escaped
sambu didn't
it is impossible to describe the sense
of loss that we all felt that we feel to
this day perhaps we shouldn't have tried
to let sambu live a wild existence and
instead have kept him in a cage for the
rest of his days away from danger but in
doing that we would also have kept him
away from the very essence of life that
makes cheaters one of the most
charismatic creatures on the planet
Sam Blue Spirit and his desire to test
the world may have led to his demise he
may have pushed his luck too far but it
was this spirit that gave him two years
of living life to the full in the wilds
of Africa taki was obviously very
confused for a while after he lost his
brother but he soon began to adjust to a
life alone
he's living alone still
other young male cheetahs have been seen
here and toki has been watching them in
the distance perhaps they'll join forces
sometime in the future we don't know
[Music]
we do know that he continues to hunt the
plains of labour Wildlife Conservancy
wild and free
[Music]